04-graphs/01-graphs.md, before:

# Graphs

## Learning Goals

By the end of this lesson we should be able to:

- Explain a graph data structure
- Explain how an ordered or unordered set of vertices can represent a graph
- Understand and write algorithms using graphs
  - Breadth First Search
  - Depth First Search

## Overview

Graphs are a linked abstract data structure in computer science represented by a set of _nodes_ connected by what are called _edges_. Like binary search trees, graphs are a non-linear data structure. However, graphs are more general than linked lists or binary search trees. Unlike binary search trees where each node can have an edge to at most two other child nodes, in a graph each node can be connected to any number of nodes. Not every node in the graph has to have the same number of edges.

Another difference with graphs is that graphs do not have a set 'start' node. When we traverse a list, we always start at the `head` node. When we traverse a binary search tree, we always start at the `root` node. With a graph traversals can start and end at any node in the data structure.

We may think of nodes in a graph as representing some chosen entity and edges in the graphs as representing relationships between those entities. Graphs lend themselves naturally to problems like finding the cheapest way to visit all the cities below.

In the graph below, each node represents a city. The edges represent flights between those cities. Notice each edge has a cost associated with it. We can traverse different paths along the graph to search for the cheapest flight from City A to City B. 

![flight paths between cities graph](images/graphs1.png)


In the graph below, each node represents an Australian state. The edges represent whether or not it is possible to drive from one state to another. Notice that the edges in the graph don't have a cost associated with them. Additionally notice that the node reprsenting Tasmania is _unconnected_ to the rest of the graph, that is to say it does not have any edges. This is because Tasmania is an island! It's not possible to drive there from another Australian state. 

![australian states graph](images/australia-graph.png)


Graphs can also be used to solve problems like exam or class scheduling. For example, say Fairaday Academy is planning to host exams. They have a number of classes and a number of students.  However they want to schedule exams in such a manner that no student is scheduled to take two exams a the same time.  There are `m` exam slots.

![Student Exam Graph Example](images/graphs2.png)

In the example above, each node represents a different course at Fairaday Academy. The edges represent a student taking both courses linked by the edge. To solve the problem, we would look for a way to assign courses to exam slots which are not directly connected by an edge.  

Many, many problems can be represented by graphs even those not involving geographic or navigational problems.  Studying graph problems gives us another way to solve a broad sector of difficult problems.

### !callout-info

## Binary Search Trees, Linked Lists, and Graphs

Binary search trees and linked lists are actually just subtypes of graphs! They are both collections of nodes with edges between them. There are just more specifications about the number and direction of edges allowed to be connected to a single node than there are with a general graph data structure.

### !end-callout

### Directed vs Undirected Graphs

Graphs can be _directed_ or _undirected_.

**Directed Graph**

In a directed graph, each edge is unidirectional. For any two nodes A and B, an edge from node A to B does not imply that there is an edge going from node B to node A.

As depicted in the example graph below, we use arrows to depict the edges of directed graphs.

![Example Directed Graph](images/directed-graph.png)

Directed graphs can be useful to represent one-way relationships. For example, imagine the graph below depicts available flights for an airline. We can see that there is a flight available from Mexico City to Lima, but there is no available flight from Lima back to Mexico City. Likewise, there is a flight from Paris to Istanbul, but no flight from Istanbul to Paris.

Directed graphs can still show bidirectional relationships. For example, the graph also shows that there is a flight from Mexico City to Paris and back from Paris to Mexico City. 

![Example Directed Graph Airline Flights](images/directed-graph-flights.png)

**Undirected Graph**

On the other hand, in an undirected graph, every edge is bidirectional. In other words, if we can travel from node A to node B, we can assume that we can also travel from node B to node A. 

Undirected graphs use lines without arrows to depict edges between nodes. In the example graph below, the connection between Ada shows that we can travel from Ada to Babbage and from Babbage back to Ada.

![Example Undirected Graph](images/undirected-graph.png)


### Weighted vs Unweighted Graphs

Graphs can also be either _weighted graphs_ or _unweighted graphs_.  In a weighted graph, each edge is assigned a numeric cost or weight.  A weighted graph can either be directed or undirected.  

![Example Weighted and Undirected Graph](images/weighted-graph.png)

Weighted graphs can be useful for assigning a cost to taking one path from a node over another. For example, in the graph below, the weight associated with each edge is the cost of the flight from City A to City B. 

We can see that it costs more to travel from Seattle to Beijing directly ($1500) than if we first travel from Seattle to Incheon and then from Incheon to Beijing ($800 + $200 = $1000). 

![Example Weighted Directed Graph Airline Flights](images/weighted-graph-flights.png)

## How To Represent A Graph

As called out above, we have already worked with graphs before.  With both binary search trees and linked lists we created a node class with pointers to represent the edges from one node to the next. An example `TreeNode` class is listed below.

```python
class TreeNode:

   def __init__(self, key, val)
      self.key = key
      self.val = val
      self.right = None
      self.left = None
```

In our methods we traversed the structure by writing either iterative or recursive methods which jumped from one node to the next following the links between them using the pointers.

We could represent a graph in a similar way. For example, we could implement a `GraphNode` class as follows:

```python
class GraphNode:

  def __init__(key, val, edges = None)
      self.key = key
      self.val = val
      if not edges:
          self.edges = []
      else:
          self.edges = edges

  def add_connection(self, other_node):
      self.edges.push(other_node)
```

Since each node can have any number of edges, we can represent the edges as a list of other `GraphNode` instances.

To add an edge between two nodes, we can use the `add_connection` method to push node B onto node A's list of edges.

While this could work, it leaves us with a problem. With linked lists and binary search trees, we created a second class in addition to the node class to represent the overall data structure, for example the `Tree` class, which stored the node at which we would start any traversal.  

There is no starting node for a graph. This makes it difficult to follow the same pattern of setting up a `Graph` class that we have used for linked lists and binary search trees. Instead, we need another way to store our graph, which provides an easy way for us to start with any node.

### List of Edges

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=f67555ac-7850-47a2-ab66-af16013cca1a&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

The most basic way to store a graph is simply to maintain a list of edges for each node.  For example for the following graph that uses integers to represent each node:

![Example graph for an edge list](images/graph-edge-list.png)

We could represent the graph as a list of edges with the following:

```python
sample_graph = [
        [1, 2], [1, 3], [3, 4]
    ]
```

In the above representation, the graph as a whole is represented by a list. Each element of that list is another list with exactly two elements representing an edge between the two elements. 

For example the list of index 0 of the outer list `[1, 2]` represents the edge between nodes 1 and 2 that we can see reflected in the diagram above.

#### List of Edges Big O

This representation has a couple of advantages it's simple and uses a minimum amount of space.  For a graph _G(N, E)_ where _N_ is the set of nodes and _E_ the set of edges, this representation has a space complexity of _O(E)_.

It does have a major downside: to find out if any particular pair of nodes are connected by an edge, you must traverse the entire list.  This means that the time complexity to find out if any two nodes are connected is _O(E)_ as well.  

Other implementations, such as the adjacency matrix we will look at next, can improve on this time complexity.

### Adjacency Matrix

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=a1caaf2a-92aa-4f38-b112-af16014a7337&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

Let's look at the same graph again.  Instead of maintaining a list of edges we could instead create a 2-dimensional matrix with _N_ rows and _N_ columns where _N_ is the number of nodes in the graph. Each row-column intersection indicates whether an edge exists between two nodes.

![Example graph for an edge list](images/graph-edge-list.png)

Below is an example matrix for the above graph:

![Example Adjacency matrix](images/graph-adjacency-matrix.png)

In the adjacency matrix above, if two nodes matched by the row-column intersection share an edge, that value in the matrix is `True`.  If they do not share an edge, the value is `False`.  

In Python, the same adjacency matrix would be represented as:

```py
    adj_matrix = [
        [False, False, False, False, False],
        [False, False, True, True, False],
        [False, True, False, False, False],
        [False, True, False, False, True],
        [False, False, False, True, False]
    ]
```

With an adjacency matrix, we take advantage of list indices and use them to represent the nodes in the graph. For example, in the above graph, the `True` value at `adj_matrix[1][2]` (row index 1 and column index 2) indicates that there is an edge between node 1 and node 2. 

Notice that this means that each node in an adjacency matrix is represented by an integer. However, graph nodes often need to encapsulate more information than just an integer. For example, if each node in the graph represented a city, we may want the node to store the city name. As a result, when we use an adjacency matrix to represent a graph, we often need some way to convert or assign each node in the graph to a number. How we encapsulate or convert this data is beyond the scope of this class, but we encourage you to follow your curiosity if this topic interests you. 

<!-- >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> BEGIN CHALLENGE >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> -->
<!-- Replace everything in square brackets [] and remove brackets  -->

### !challenge

* type: paragraph
* id: 1fabf01a-31a0-40ed-949f-d505768e0d1e
* title: What would a value of `False` for `adj_matrix[0][0]` indicate?
* points: 1

##### !question

In an adjacency matrix `adj_matrix`, what would a value of `False` for `adj_matrix[0][0]` indicate?

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

##### !end-placeholder

##### !hint

The value at `adj_matrix[0][0]` indicates whether there is a node from Node 0 to Node 0.

##### !end-hint

##### !explanation 

The 0th node in the graph represented by `adj_matrix` does not have an edge with itself. 

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge

<!-- ======================= END CHALLENGE ======================= -->

<!-- >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> BEGIN CHALLENGE >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> -->
<!-- Replace everything in square brackets [] and remove brackets  -->

### !challenge

* type: paragraph
* id: 4f55b006-9931-474c-9c13-19a7747ec68f
* title: How could we represent an undirected graph using an adjacency matrix?
* points: 1

##### !question

How could we represent an undirected graph using an adjacency matrix?

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

##### !end-placeholder

<!-- other optional sections -->
##### !hint 

In an undirected graph, if `adj_matrix[1][2]` is `True`, what does that imply about `adj_matrix[2][1]`?

##### !end-hint 
<!-- !rubric - !end-rubric (markdown, instructors can see while scoring a checkpoint) -->
##### !explanation 
If the graph is undirected, the entries across the central diagonal will be the same. That is to say, if `adj_matrix[1][2]` is `True`, then `adj_matrix[2][1]` must also be `True`. Conversely, if `adj_matrix[1][2]` is `False`, then `adj_matrix[2][1] ` must also be `False`
##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge


<!-- ======================= END CHALLENGE ======================= -->

Based upon our observations from the above questions, we can notice a couple of things about adjacency matrices:
- Unless a node has an edge with itself the diagonal from [0][0] to [n-1][n-1] will be `False`
- If the graph is undirected, the entries across the central diagonal will be mirror images
  - if (1, 2) is `True`, then (2, 1) must also be `True`
- We need some way to convert a node in the graph to an integer

#### Adjacency Matrix Big O

For a graph _G(N, E)_, where _N_ is the number of nodes and _E_ the number of edges, this solution provides:

- **O(1)** lookup time complexity to find out if any two nodes share an edge
- **O(N<sup>2</sup>)** space complexity to store this representation
- **O(N)** time complexity for getting a list of all the neighbors of a node `n` because you need to read the entire row or column.

This method provides a very fast lookup time and not terrible space complexity if the graph is a _dense graph_ which is a graph where there are a large number of edges compared to nodes.

In the example above, we used a matrix of booleans where true indicates an existing edge and false indicates no edge exists connecting the two nodes. You will often see this represented as a matrix of ones and zeroes where zero indicates no edge exists and 1 indicates it does.  This has the advantage of only requiring one bit per matrix cell.  There are [some strategies](https://github.com/javolio/Bitwise-Adjacency-Matrix) to use this fact to compress the space requirements.  

### Adjacency List


<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=c50cc66a-5630-471c-a3b6-af16016041ae&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

An adjacency list provides a bit of a middle ground between a list of edges and an adjacency matrix.  Like an adjacency matrix, an adjacency list is a list of lists where each index of the outer list represents a node. However, the value at each index is an unordered list of neighboring nodes. The adjacency list can be an array or a linked list.

We can craft an adjacency list for the same graph we've been looking at like so:

![Example graph for an adjacency list](images/graph-edge-list.png)

![Adjacency List Example](images/graph-adjacency-list.png)

Represented in Python, the adjacency list would look like the following.

```python
adjacency_list = [
        [],
        [2, 3],
        [1],
        [1, 4],
        [3]
    ]
```

#### Adjacency List With A Dictionary


The examples we used above used numeric identifications for nodes. But what if we want to use other values like strings or objects to represent nodes?  In that case we could use a hash table (dictionary).

![Adjacency list diagram with a dictionary](images/graphs-adjacency-list-cities.png)

```python
adjacency_list_with_dict = {
        "Seattle": ["Los Angelos", "Topeka"],
        "Los Angeles": ["Seattle", "Denver", "San Diego"],
        "Topeka": ["Seattle"],
        "Denver": ["Los Angeles", "Dallas"],
        "San Diego": ["Los Angeles"],
        "Dallas": ["Denver"]
    }
```

This representation provides similar benefits to using an array for an adjacency list, but provides us more flexibility with keys.  We no longer need numeric IDs for our nodes and the IDs do not need to be consecutive.  For example, in the adjacency matrix and list above, there was no node 0, but we maintained space for a node with that id.

#### Adjacency List Big O
Generally adjacency lists give a good balance between time and space complexity and perform relatively well. 
- **O(d)** lookup time to find out if any two nodes share an edge, where _d_ is the _degree_ of a node meaning the number of edges the node has
  - The maximum value of d would be the case where a node is connected to every other node (assuming no duplicate edges) which is _N_ - 1 where _N_ is the total number of nodes in the graph.
  - When _d_ begins to approach _N_ for the majority of nodes - in other words, when we have a dense graph - we start to see the advantages of using an adjacency matrix with O(1) lookup time over an adjacency list
- O(2E) = **O(E)** space complexity to store this representation because each element of the array stores a list of the edges a node has
  -  Each edge is stored twice in the case of an undirected graph
- **O(1)** time complexity to get all the neighbors of a particular node because it is an O(1) operation to lookup a node by its index and the list at that location is a list of all the node's neighbors.

## Summary

A graph is a data structure consisting of a finite collection of _nodes_, also called _vertices_, and a collection of connections between nodes known as _edges_.  A graph can be either a _directed graph_, or an _undirected graph_.  In a directed graph, edges are not bidirectional: we may be able to travel from node A to node B, but not from node B to node A. Graphs can also have _weighted_ or _unweighted_ edges. Weighted graphs have some cost or weight assigned to each edge, making it so that the shortest, most direct path from Node A to Node B may not be the cheapest.

Because graphs are non-hierarchical and do not have a set start node, it is difficult to represent graphs in the same way we usually represent linked lists and trees. Instead, there are two common methods for representing a graph data structure:
- Adjacency matrix
- Adjacency list

An adjacency matrix has a fast lookup time of O(1) to see if two nodes are connected by an edge, but it can be relatively expensive in terms of space complexity and the time it takes to find all the neighbors of a particular node. An adjacency list, has a better balance between time and space complexity, but the lookup time of O(d) to find if two nodes share an edge can be expensive when a graph is dense.


<!-- Diagram sources:  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bOXvfXdWi9pkKfmWnMZd9QK4zoG930c7/view?usp=sharing -->

Commit message:

Add unweighted directed graph example

04-graphs/01-graphs.md, after:

# Graphs

## Learning Goals

By the end of this lesson we should be able to:

- Explain a graph data structure
- Explain how an ordered or unordered set of vertices can represent a graph
- Understand and write algorithms using graphs
  - Breadth First Search
  - Depth First Search

## Overview

Graphs are a linked abstract data structure in computer science represented by a set of _nodes_ connected by references called _edges_. Like binary search trees, graphs are a non-linear data structure. However, graphs are more general than linked lists or binary search trees. Unlike binary search trees where each node can have an edge to at most two other child nodes, each node in a graph can be connected to any number of other nodes. Not every node in the graph has to have the same number of edges.

Another difference is that graphs do not have a set 'start' node. When we traverse a list, we always start at the `head` node. When we traverse a binary search tree, we always start at the `root` node. With a graph, traversals can start and end at any node in the data structure.

We may think of nodes in a graph as representing some chosen entity and edges in the graphs as representing relationships between those entities. Graphs lend themselves naturally to problems like finding the cheapest way to visit all the cities below.

In the graph below, each node represents a city. The edges represent flights between those cities. Notice each edge has a cost associated with it. We can traverse different paths along the graph to search for the cheapest flight from City A to City B. 

![flight paths between cities graph](images/graphs1.png)


In the graph below, each node represents an Australian state. The edges represent whether or not it is possible to drive from one state to another. Notice that the edges in the graph don't have a cost associated with them. Additionally notice that the node reprsenting Tasmania is _unconnected_ to the rest of the graph, that is to say it does not have any edges. This is because Tasmania is an island! It's not possible to drive there from another Australian state. 

![australian states graph](images/australia-graph.png)


Graphs can also be used to solve problems like exam or class scheduling. For example, say Fairaday Academy is planning to host exams. They have a number of classes and a number of students.  However they want to schedule exams in such a manner that no student is scheduled to take two exams a the same time.  There are `m` exam slots.

![Student Exam Graph Example](images/graphs2.png)

In the example above, each node represents a different course at Fairaday Academy. The edges represent a student taking both courses linked by the edge. To solve the problem, we would look for a way to assign courses to exam slots which are not directly connected by an edge.  

Many, many problems can be represented by graphs even those not involving geographic or navigational problems. Studying graph problems allows us to solve a broad sector of difficult problems.

### !callout-info

## Binary Search Trees, Linked Lists, and Graphs

Binary search trees and linked lists are actually just subtypes of graphs! They are both collections of nodes with edges between them. There are just more specifications about the number and direction of edges allowed to be connected to a single node than there are with a general graph data structure.

### !end-callout

### Directed vs Undirected Graphs

Graphs can be _directed_ or _undirected_.

**Directed Graph**

In a directed graph, each edge is unidirectional. For any two nodes A and B, an edge from node A to B does not imply that there is an edge going from node B to node A.

As depicted in the example graph below, we use arrows to depict the edges of directed graphs.

![Example Directed Graph](images/directed-graph.png)

Directed graphs can be useful to represent one-way relationships. For example, imagine the graph below depicts available flights for an airline. We can see that there is a flight available from Mexico City to Lima, but there is no available flight from Lima back to Mexico City. Likewise, there is a flight from Paris to Istanbul, but no flight from Istanbul to Paris.

Directed graphs can still show bidirectional relationships. For example, the graph also shows that there is a flight from Mexico City to Paris and back from Paris to Mexico City. 

![Example Directed Graph Airline Flights](images/directed-graph-flights.png)

**Undirected Graph**

On the other hand, in an undirected graph, every edge is bidirectional. In other words, if we can travel from node A to node B, we can assume that we can also travel from node B to node A. 

Undirected graphs use lines without arrows to depict edges between nodes. In the example graph below, the connection between Ada shows that we can travel from Ada to Babbage and from Babbage back to Ada.

![Example Undirected Graph](images/undirected-graph.png)


### Weighted vs Unweighted Graphs

Graphs can also be either _weighted graphs_ or _unweighted graphs_.  In a weighted graph, each edge is assigned a numeric cost or weight.  A weighted graph can either be directed or undirected.  

![Example Weighted and Undirected Graph](images/weighted-graph.png)

Weighted graphs can be useful for assigning a cost to taking one path from a node over another. For example, in the graph below, the weight associated with each edge is the cost of the flight from City A to City B. 

We can see that it costs more to travel from Seattle to Beijing directly ($1500) than if we first travel from Seattle to Incheon and then from Incheon to Beijing ($800 + $200 = $1000). 

![Example Weighted Directed Graph Airline Flights](images/weighted-graph-flights.png)

With unweighted graphs we assume that the cost/weight associated with each edge is equal. The least costly route between City A and City B is the most direct path - the path with the least number of edges.

If we were to take the same graph of available flights from above but make it unweighted, the least costly route would be traveling along the edge from Seattle to Beijing which would be just a single direct flight. There is no longer a cost benefit to having a layover in Incheon. 

![Example Unweighted Directed Graph Airline Flights](images/unweighted-graph-flights.png)

## How To Represent A Graph

As called out above, we have already worked with graphs before.  With both binary search trees and linked lists we created a node class with pointers to represent the edges from one node to the next. An example `TreeNode` class is listed below.

```python
class TreeNode:

   def __init__(self, key, val)
      self.key = key
      self.val = val
      self.right = None
      self.left = None
```

In our methods we traversed the structure by writing either iterative or recursive methods which jumped from one node to the next following the links between them using the pointers.

We could represent a graph in a similar way. For example, we could implement a `GraphNode` class as follows:

```python
class GraphNode:

  def __init__(key, val, edges = None)
      self.key = key
      self.val = val
      if not edges:
          self.edges = []
      else:
          self.edges = edges

  def add_connection(self, other_node):
      self.edges.push(other_node)
```

Since each node can have any number of edges, we can represent the edges as a list of other `GraphNode` instances.

To add an edge between two nodes, we can use the `add_connection` method to push node B onto node A's list of edges.

While this could work, it leaves us with a problem. With linked lists and binary search trees, we created a second class in addition to the node class to represent the overall data structure, for example the `Tree` class, which stored the node at which we would start any traversal.  

There is no starting node for a graph. This makes it difficult to follow the same pattern of setting up a `Graph` class that we have used for linked lists and binary search trees. Instead, we need another way to store our graph, which provides an easy way for us to start with any node.

### List of Edges

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=f67555ac-7850-47a2-ab66-af16013cca1a&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

The most basic way to store a graph is simply to maintain a list of edges for each node.  For example for the following graph that uses integers to represent each node:

![Example graph for an edge list](images/graph-edge-list.png)

We could represent the graph as a list of edges with the following:

```python
sample_graph = [
        [1, 2], [1, 3], [3, 4]
    ]
```

In the above representation, the graph as a whole is represented by a list. Each element of that list is another list with exactly two elements representing an edge between the two elements. 

For example the list of index 0 of the outer list `[1, 2]` represents the edge between nodes 1 and 2 that we can see reflected in the diagram above.

#### List of Edges Big O

This representation has a couple of advantages it's simple and uses a minimum amount of space.  For a graph _G(N, E)_ where _N_ is the set of nodes and _E_ the set of edges, this representation has a space complexity of _O(E)_.

It does have a major downside: to find out if any particular pair of nodes are connected by an edge, you must traverse the entire list.  This means that the time complexity to find out if any two nodes are connected is _O(E)_ as well.  

Other implementations, such as the adjacency matrix we will look at next, can improve on this time complexity.

### Adjacency Matrix

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=a1caaf2a-92aa-4f38-b112-af16014a7337&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

Let's look at the same graph again.  Instead of maintaining a list of edges we could instead create a 2-dimensional matrix with _N_ rows and _N_ columns where _N_ is the number of nodes in the graph. Each row-column intersection indicates whether an edge exists between two nodes.

![Example graph for an edge list](images/graph-edge-list.png)

Below is an example matrix for the above graph:

![Example Adjacency matrix](images/graph-adjacency-matrix.png)

In the adjacency matrix above, if two nodes matched by the row-column intersection share an edge, that value in the matrix is `True`.  If they do not share an edge, the value is `False`.  

In Python, the same adjacency matrix would be represented as:

```py
    adj_matrix = [
        [False, False, False, False, False],
        [False, False, True, True, False],
        [False, True, False, False, False],
        [False, True, False, False, True],
        [False, False, False, True, False]
    ]
```

With an adjacency matrix, we take advantage of list indices and use them to represent the nodes in the graph. For example, in the above graph, the `True` value at `adj_matrix[1][2]` (row index 1 and column index 2) indicates that there is an edge between node 1 and node 2. 

Notice that this means that each node in an adjacency matrix is represented by an integer. However, graph nodes often need to encapsulate more information than just an integer. For example, if each node in the graph represented a city, we may want the node to store the city name. As a result, when we use an adjacency matrix to represent a graph, we often need some way to convert or assign each node in the graph to a number. How we encapsulate or convert this data is beyond the scope of this class, but we encourage you to follow your curiosity if this topic interests you. 

<!-- >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> BEGIN CHALLENGE >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> -->
<!-- Replace everything in square brackets [] and remove brackets  -->

### !challenge

* type: paragraph
* id: 1fabf01a-31a0-40ed-949f-d505768e0d1e
* title: What would a value of `False` for `adj_matrix[0][0]` indicate?
* points: 1

##### !question

In an adjacency matrix `adj_matrix`, what would a value of `False` for `adj_matrix[0][0]` indicate?

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

##### !end-placeholder

##### !hint

The value at `adj_matrix[0][0]` indicates whether there is a node from Node 0 to Node 0.

##### !end-hint

##### !explanation 

The 0th node in the graph represented by `adj_matrix` does not have an edge with itself. 

##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge

<!-- ======================= END CHALLENGE ======================= -->

<!-- >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> BEGIN CHALLENGE >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>> -->
<!-- Replace everything in square brackets [] and remove brackets  -->

### !challenge

* type: paragraph
* id: 4f55b006-9931-474c-9c13-19a7747ec68f
* title: How could we represent an undirected graph using an adjacency matrix?
* points: 1

##### !question

How could we represent an undirected graph using an adjacency matrix?

##### !end-question

##### !placeholder

##### !end-placeholder

<!-- other optional sections -->
##### !hint 

In an undirected graph, if `adj_matrix[1][2]` is `True`, what does that imply about `adj_matrix[2][1]`?

##### !end-hint 
<!-- !rubric - !end-rubric (markdown, instructors can see while scoring a checkpoint) -->
##### !explanation 
If the graph is undirected, the entries across the central diagonal will be the same. That is to say, if `adj_matrix[1][2]` is `True`, then `adj_matrix[2][1]` must also be `True`. Conversely, if `adj_matrix[1][2]` is `False`, then `adj_matrix[2][1] ` must also be `False`
##### !end-explanation

### !end-challenge


<!-- ======================= END CHALLENGE ======================= -->

Based upon our observations from the above questions, we can notice a couple of things about adjacency matrices:
- Unless a node has an edge with itself the diagonal from [0][0] to [n-1][n-1] will be `False`
- If the graph is undirected, the entries across the central diagonal will be mirror images
  - if (1, 2) is `True`, then (2, 1) must also be `True`
- We need some way to convert a node in the graph to an integer

#### Adjacency Matrix Big O

For a graph _G(N, E)_, where _N_ is the number of nodes and _E_ the number of edges, this solution provides:

- **O(1)** lookup time complexity to find out if any two nodes share an edge
- **O(N<sup>2</sup>)** space complexity to store this representation
- **O(N)** time complexity for getting a list of all the neighbors of a node `n` because you need to read the entire row or column.

This method provides a very fast lookup time and not terrible space complexity if the graph is a _dense graph_ which is a graph where there are a large number of edges compared to nodes.

In the example above, we used a matrix of booleans where true indicates an existing edge and false indicates no edge exists connecting the two nodes. You will often see this represented as a matrix of ones and zeroes where zero indicates no edge exists and 1 indicates it does.  This has the advantage of only requiring one bit per matrix cell.  There are [some strategies](https://github.com/javolio/Bitwise-Adjacency-Matrix) to use this fact to compress the space requirements.  

### Adjacency List


<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=c50cc66a-5630-471c-a3b6-af16016041ae&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

An adjacency list provides a bit of a middle ground between a list of edges and an adjacency matrix.  Like an adjacency matrix, an adjacency list is a list of lists where each index of the outer list represents a node. However, the value at each index is an unordered list of neighboring nodes. The adjacency list can be an array or a linked list.

We can craft an adjacency list for the same graph we've been looking at like so:

![Example graph for an adjacency list](images/graph-edge-list.png)

![Adjacency List Example](images/graph-adjacency-list.png)

Represented in Python, the adjacency list would look like the following.

```python
adjacency_list = [
        [],
        [2, 3],
        [1],
        [1, 4],
        [3]
    ]
```

#### Adjacency List With A Dictionary


The examples we used above used numeric identifications for nodes. But what if we want to use other values like strings or objects to represent nodes?  In that case we could use a hash table (dictionary).

![Adjacency list diagram with a dictionary](images/graphs-adjacency-list-cities.png)

```python
adjacency_list_with_dict = {
        "Seattle": ["Los Angelos", "Topeka"],
        "Los Angeles": ["Seattle", "Denver", "San Diego"],
        "Topeka": ["Seattle"],
        "Denver": ["Los Angeles", "Dallas"],
        "San Diego": ["Los Angeles"],
        "Dallas": ["Denver"]
    }
```

This representation provides similar benefits to using an array for an adjacency list, but provides us more flexibility with keys.  We no longer need numeric IDs for our nodes and the IDs do not need to be consecutive.  For example, in the adjacency matrix and list above, there was no node 0, but we maintained space for a node with that id.

#### Adjacency List Big O
Generally adjacency lists give a good balance between time and space complexity and perform relatively well. 
- **O(d)** lookup time to find out if any two nodes share an edge, where _d_ is the _degree_ of a node meaning the number of edges the node has
  - The maximum value of d would be the case where a node is connected to every other node (assuming no duplicate edges) which is _N_ - 1 where _N_ is the total number of nodes in the graph.
  - When _d_ begins to approach _N_ for the majority of nodes - in other words, when we have a dense graph - we start to see the advantages of using an adjacency matrix with O(1) lookup time over an adjacency list
- O(2E) = **O(E)** space complexity to store this representation because each element of the array stores a list of the edges a node has
  -  Each edge is stored twice in the case of an undirected graph
- **O(1)** time complexity to get all the neighbors of a particular node because it is an O(1) operation to lookup a node by its index and the list at that location is a list of all the node's neighbors.

## Summary

A graph is a data structure consisting of a finite collection of _nodes_, also called _vertices_, and a collection of connections between nodes known as _edges_.  A graph can be either a _directed graph_, or an _undirected graph_.  In a directed graph, edges are not bidirectional: we may be able to travel from node A to node B, but not from node B to node A. Graphs can also have _weighted_ or _unweighted_ edges. Weighted graphs have some cost or weight assigned to each edge, making it so that the shortest, most direct path from Node A to Node B may not be the cheapest.

Because graphs are non-hierarchical and do not have a set start node, it is difficult to represent graphs in the same way we usually represent linked lists and trees. Instead, there are three common methods for representing a graph data structure:
- List of edges
- Adjacency matrix
- Adjacency list

An adjacency matrix has a fast lookup time of O(1) to see if two nodes are connected by an edge, but it can be relatively expensive in terms of space complexity and the time it takes to find all the neighbors of a particular node. An adjacency list, has a better balance between time and space complexity, but the lookup time of O(d) to find if two nodes share an edge can be expensive when a graph is dense.


<!-- Diagram sources:  https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bOXvfXdWi9pkKfmWnMZd9QK4zoG930c7/view?usp=sharing -->
