04-graphs/03-graphs-resources.md, before:

# Resources

## Terms & Definitions

| Term | Definition |
|--- |--- |
| Graph | A data structure with two parts:  A limited set of verticies, called nodes, and a limited set of connections between nodes known as edges. |
| Edge | A connection between two nodes in a graph. |
| Node | The fundamental unit of a graph in computer science.  Each element of a graph, connected by edges. |
| Sparse Graph | A graph with few edges when compared to nodes. |
| Dense Graph | A graph with many more edges when compared to nodes.  A graph is considered _dense_ when it has close to the maximum number of possible edges. |
| Directed Graph |  A graph where the edges connet in one direction.  For example an edge may conect nodes A -> B, but will not connect B -> A. |
| Undirected Graph | A Graph in which each edge is bidirectional.  So an edge from A → B also connects B → A. |
| Adjacency Matrix | A 2-dimensional array listing the connections between nodes in a graph. |
| Adjacency List | A collection of unordered lists used to represent a graph.  Each list describes the neighors of a particular node.
| Node Degree | The number of edges a particular node has. |

## Resources

- [BaseCS on Graphs](https://medium.com/basecs/from-theory-to-practice-representing-graphs-cfd782c5be38)
- [Geeks for Geeks: Graphs and it's representations](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/graph-and-its-representations/)
- [Coursera:  Algorithms on Graphs](https://www.coursera.org/lecture/algorithms-on-graphs/representing-graphs-c4W9f)

Commit message:

Move C16 video lessons to resources

04-graphs/03-graphs-resources.md, after:

# Resources

## Terms & Definitions

| Term | Definition |
|--- |--- |
| Graph | A data structure with two parts:  A limited set of verticies, called nodes, and a limited set of connections between nodes known as edges. |
| Edge | A connection between two nodes in a graph. |
| Node | The fundamental unit of a graph in computer science.  Each element of a graph, connected by edges. |
| Sparse Graph | A graph with few edges when compared to nodes. |
| Dense Graph | A graph with many more edges when compared to nodes.  A graph is considered _dense_ when it has close to the maximum number of possible edges. |
| Directed Graph |  A graph where the edges connet in one direction.  For example an edge may conect nodes A -> B, but will not connect B -> A. |
| Undirected Graph | A Graph in which each edge is bidirectional.  So an edge from A → B also connects B → A. |
| Adjacency Matrix | A 2-dimensional array listing the connections between nodes in a graph. |
| Adjacency List | A collection of unordered lists used to represent a graph.  Each list describes the neighors of a particular node.
| Node Degree | The number of edges a particular node has. |

## Resources
- [C16 Video Lesson](https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=09cd9474-04a2-4460-8eb8-aad8005b7065)
- [C16 Accompanying Slide Deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1pIAhpb0QL7Pk93P3E-jIRbboz6UPRZOnJ2eyVU1Ga3Q/edit#slide=id.p7)
- [BaseCS on Graphs](https://medium.com/basecs/from-theory-to-practice-representing-graphs-cfd782c5be38)
- [Geeks for Geeks: Graphs and its representations](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/graph-and-its-representations/)
- [Coursera:  Algorithms on Graphs](https://www.coursera.org/lecture/algorithms-on-graphs/representing-graphs-c4W9f)
