04-graphs/06-graphs-activity.md, before:

# Livecode & Activity

## Number of Provinces

We will go over how to implement a solution for the Number of Provinces problem.

### Class Livecode

Follow along in the following Replit as we livecode the function in class: 
* [Number of Provinces Livecode Start](https://replit.com/@adadev/Number-of-Provinces-Livecode-Start)
<!--
* [C19 Number of Provinces Livecode Solution](#)
-->

### Small Group Work: Graph Variations Activities

For your small group activity,  you will work on one of the graph variation activities.

- Spend twenty minutes with your breakout room implementing a solution. 
- One person in the group should fork the replit and share a link with the rest of the group.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by discussing how you would solve the function using pen and paper.
- If your entire group is still feeling lost, discuss what is making you feel stuck and ask an instructor to come to your room for help!
- After small group work, we will come back together as a class to work through a solution together, as time allows. Groups may ask questions, share where they got stuck, and/or share out their solutions.

Fork one of the following Replits to work on in small groups: 
* [Convert Graph](https://replit.com/@adadev/Convert-Graph-Activity)
* [DFS with Adjacency Matrix](https://replit.com/@adadev/dfs-with-adjacency-matrix)
* [Repeat BFS](https://replit.com/@adadev/Repeat-BFS-Activity)

<!--
Solution:
* [C19 Small Group Solution](#)
-->

Commit message:

Swap Bipartition from PSE to livecode (number of provinces will be the PSE)

04-graphs/06-graphs-activity.md, after:

# Livecode & Activity

## Bipartition Graph

We will go over how to implement a solution for the Bipartition Graph problem.

### Class Livecode

Follow along in the following Replit as we livecode the function in class: 
* [Bipartition Graph Livecode Start](https://replit.com/@adadev/Bipartition-Graph-Livecode-Start)
<!--
* [C19 Bipartition Graph Livecode Solution](#)
-->

### Small Group Work: Graph Variations Activities

For your small group activity,  you will work on one of the graph variation activities.

- Spend twenty minutes with your breakout room implementing a solution. 
- One person in the group should fork the replit and share a link with the rest of the group.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by discussing how you would solve the function using pen and paper.
- If your entire group is still feeling lost, discuss what is making you feel stuck and ask an instructor to come to your room for help!
- After small group work, we will come back together as a class to work through a solution together, as time allows. Groups may ask questions, share where they got stuck, and/or share out their solutions.

Fork one of the following Replits to work on in small groups: 
* [Convert Graph](https://replit.com/@adadev/Convert-Graph-Activity)
* [DFS with Adjacency Matrix](https://replit.com/@adadev/dfs-with-adjacency-matrix)
* [Repeat BFS](https://replit.com/@adadev/Repeat-BFS-Activity)

<!--
Solution:
* [C19 Small Group Solution](#)
-->
