07-algorithms/class-lesson.instructor.md, before:

# Lesson Plan

Stacks and Queues are fairly straightforward data structures, but are included in the curriculum for completeness as they are a fundamental part of most computer science curriculums and often used in interviews.

They are expanded on in the project using a circular buffer. Students often find using the `%` operator to traverse an array in a circular buffer. Demonstrating it's use in a loop can be quite helpful.

## Lesson Goals

We want students to:

- Be able to explain Stacks & Queues
- Be able to explain Abstract Data Types
- Use Stacks & Queues to solve coding problems
- Use the modulus operator to traverse a circular buffer

## Review Binary Search Tree Project - 10 minutes

Start off the lesson by welcoming students to the class and note attendance. You can use the Airtable to record attendance The [C16 Airtable](https://airtable.com/appkfPQ769uxQLSei/tbl6oiA8ZG1wKUonM/viwgf4wesbLFMlg1L?blocks=hide) is linked.

Take a moment to review any questions from Binary Search Trees and allow students to present their solutions.

### !callout-info

## Students may not want to do this

Students can be a bit shy, but you can contact specific students ahead of time asking them to be ready to present, "because you find their solution interesting."  Being prepared helps with student confidence.

### !end-callout

## Stacks & Queues Introduction - 10 minutes

Then follow the 1st part of the [activity](./01-stacks-and-queues.md) reviewing stacks & queues, abstract data types & the use of the modulus operator when traversing a list.  

Specifically reinforce:

- The utility of Abstract Data Types
- The core stack & queue functions
- The use of the `%` operator to traverse a circular buffer
    - Students have trouble understanding how to wrap around a list without using an `if` statement.  Instead of using `front = (front + 1) % size`, they will use an if statement.  It's not a huge deal, but can be helpful to simplify code.

## Livecodes - 20 minutes

In the livecode walk through a sample stack coding problem and the constructor/`enqueue` method:

Remember to:

- Try to get students to navigate as you type.  
- Cause a bug, and try to promote student ideas to fix it.
- Model how to use the tests and print statements.

### Reorder Linked List Problem - 15 minutes

After introducing the project and illustrating the `%` in the `enqueue` method, we can walk through a sample problem using a Stack and give students another chance for exposure to Linked Lists.

- [Reordering a Linked List](https://replit.com/@adadev/reorderlinkedlist#reorder_linked_list/reorder_linked_list.py)

## Coding Activity - 45 minutes

Break students into breakout rooms to practice the replit. The replit has a suggested solution in pseudocode which is a good chance for students to discuss how to convert it to code.

Iterate through the breakout rooms answering questions as you go.

[Daily Temperatures](https://replit.com/@adadev/Daily-Temperatures-Solution#daily_temperatures/daily_temperatures.py)

## Solution Examples

Solutions:

- [The project](https://github.com/adagold/stacks-queues/tree/python-solution)
- [Reorder Linked Lists](https://replit.com/@adadev/reorderlinkedlist-Solution)
- [Daily Temperatures](https://replit.com/@adadev/Daily-Temperatures-Solution)

Commit message:

in class activity and lesson plan

07-algorithms/class-lesson.instructor.md, after:

# Lesson Plan

Dynamic Programming is a _hard_ concept for students to understand. It will likely take repeated exposures to the strategy. This lesson is intended to give students several chances to see and solve dynamic programming problems.  If students only understand the memoization strategy and are able to solve problems like Fibonacci numbers, this is a good place to start.

## Lesson Goals

We want students to:

- Be able to explain divide & conquer, greedy and dynamic programming strategies
- Identify algorithms using these strategies
- Solve coding problems using divide & conquer, greedy and dynamic programming strategies

## Review Heaps Project - 10 minutes

Start off the lesson by welcoming students to the class and note attendance. You can use the Airtable to record attendance The [C16 Airtable](https://airtable.com/appkfPQ769uxQLSei/tbl6oiA8ZG1wKUonM/viwgf4wesbLFMlg1L?blocks=hide) is linked.

Take a moment to review any questions from the Heaps project and allow students to present their solutions.

### !callout-info

## Students may not want to do this

Students can be a bit shy, but you can contact specific students ahead of time asking them to be ready to present, "because you find their solution interesting."  Being prepared helps with student confidence.

### !end-callout

## Algorithmic Strategies Introduction - 10 minutes

Then follow the 1st part of the [activity](./01-stacks-and-queues.md) reviewing divide & conquer, greedy algorithms and dynamic programming and answer questions about the coding examples.

Specifically reinforce:

- How to identify the strategies.
- Where to use them.
- Terminology such a memoization, and recursion

## Livecodes - 30 minutes

In the livecode walk through both the Newman Conway problem and Word Break.  Word Break is intentionally similar to the in class group exercise.

Remember to:

- Try to get students to navigate as you type.  
- Cause a bug, and try to promote student ideas to fix it.
- Model how to use the tests and print statements.

[Word Break](https://replit.com/@adadev/Word-break)

## Coding Activity - 45 minutes

Break students into breakout rooms to practice the replit. The replit has a suggested solution in pseudocode which is a good chance for students to discuss how to convert it to code.

Iterate through the breakout rooms answering questions as you go.

[House Robber](https://replit.com/@adadev/House-Robber)

## Solution Examples

Solutions:

- [The project](https://github.com/AdaGold/dynamic-programming/tree/python-solution)
- [Word Break](https://replit.com/@adadev/Word-break-Solution)
- [House Robber](https://replit.com/@adadev/House-Robber-Solution#house_robber/house_robber.py)
