03-Binary-Search-Trees/05-Binary-Search-Trees-Activity-Async.md, before:

# Additional Practice

## Height of a Binary Search Tree

Consider the operations and implementation necessary to determine the height of a Binary Search Tree.

Tests are included in the repo to help you test whether your implementation works correctly.

As always, if you are feeling stuck, we invite you to come to office hours, ask questions in Slack in #study-hall, or consult an AI tool to help you brainstorm an approach without providing a solution.

### Class Livecode Recording

Follow along with the [Class Discussions](./06-Binary-Search-Trees-Class-Discussions.md) recording in the following repo as we livecode the `height` function in class: 
* [BST Height](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/bst-height-livecode)
  * Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see a version of the Livecode implementation

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=71b5c27e-492a-4c71-9c00-afdc014e5cca&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

The repo `main` branch does not include the implementation of `height`. Try coding it along with the recording as you think about the steps needed to determine the height of a Binary Search Tree. Before moving on to main activity work, you can copy in the `height` implementation from the `solution` branch for your reference.

### Independent or Small Group Work: Kth Smallest Element

Feel free to complete this activity independently or in small groups. If you are working in a small group, have one person fork and clone the repository so that you can all work together on the implementation of the helper functions. Invite the other members of your group to the repo so that you can all push changes to the same repo and see each other's work.

You will work on implementing `kth_smallest` which returns the Kth smallest element in a BST given the `root` of the tree and `k`.

Fork and clone the following repo: [Kth Smallest Element in BST](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/bst-kth-smallest)

- Time box no more than twenty minutes per function implementing a solution to the two helper functions using pseudocode or Python. 
- If you feel stuck, start by thinking about how you would solve the helper functions using pen and paper.
- Explain what is making you feel stuck and try to work through your questions with others!

### Solution

After you have had a chance to work on your own solution(s) for the `kth_smallest` function, check out the `solution` branch to see our working implementation:

* [Kth Smallest Element in BST Solution](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/bst-kth-smallest/tree/solution)

Commit message:

adds explicit previous recording section to LL and BST
- also fixes a copy/paste error in BST time boxing instruction
- adjusts some heading levels

03-Binary-Search-Trees/05-Binary-Search-Trees-Activity-Async.md, after:

# Additional Practice

## Height of a Binary Search Tree

Consider the operations and implementation necessary to determine the height of a Binary Search Tree.

Tests are included in the repo to help you test whether your implementation works correctly.

As always, if you are feeling stuck, we invite you to come to office hours, ask questions in Slack in #study-hall, or consult an AI tool to help you brainstorm an approach without providing a solution.

### Class Livecode Recording

Follow along with the [Class Discussions](./06-Binary-Search-Trees-Class-Discussions.md) recording in the following repo as we livecode the `height` function in class: 
* [BST Height](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/bst-height-livecode)
  * Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see a version of the Livecode implementation

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=71b5c27e-492a-4c71-9c00-afdc014e5cca&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

The repo `main` branch does not include the implementation of `height`. Try coding it along with the recording as you think about the steps needed to determine the height of a Binary Search Tree. Before moving on to main activity work, you can copy in the `height` implementation from the `solution` branch for your reference.

## Independent or Small Group Work: Kth Smallest Element

Feel free to complete this activity independently or in small groups. If you are working in a small group, have one person fork and clone the repository so that you can all work together on the implementation of the helper functions. Invite the other members of your group to the repo so that you can all push changes to the same repo and see each other's work.

You will work on implementing `kth_smallest` which returns the Kth smallest element in a BST given the `root` of the tree and `k`.

Fork and clone the following repo: [Kth Smallest Element in BST](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/bst-kth-smallest)

- Time box no more than twenty minutes implementing a solution to the `kth_smallest` function using pseudocode or Python. 
- If you feel stuck, start by thinking about how you would solve the helper functions using pen and paper.
- Explain what is making you feel stuck and try to work through your questions with others!

### Solution

After you have had a chance to work on your own solution(s) for the `kth_smallest` function, check out the `solution` branch to see our working implementation:

* [Kth Smallest Element in BST Solution](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/bst-kth-smallest/tree/solution)

## Previous Recordings 

To see all the recordings related to Binary Search Trees, please consult the [Class Discussion](./06-Binary-Search-Trees-Class-Discussions.md) section of this topic.
