03-Binary-Search-Trees/05-Binary-Search-Trees-Activity.md, before:

# Livecode & Activity

## Height of a Binary Search Tree

We will go over how to implement a recursive height function for Binary Search Trees as a class.

### Class Livecode

Follow along in the following Replit as we livecode the function in class: 
* [BST Height Livecode Start](https://replit.com/@adadev/BST-Height-Livecode-Start)
<!--
* [C19 BST Height Livecode Solution](#)
-->

### Small Group Work: Kth Smallest Element

For your small group activity,  you will work on implementing 'Kth Smallest Element' which returns the Kth smallest element in a BST given the `root` of the tree and `k`.

- Spend twenty minutes with your breakout room implementing a solution. 
- One person in the group should fork the replit and share a link with the rest of the group.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by discussing how you would solve the function using pen and paper.
- If your entire group is still feeling lost, discuss what is making you feel stuck and ask an instructor to come to your room for help!
- After small group work, we will come back together as a class to work through a solution together, as time allows. Groups may ask questions, share where they got stuck, and/or share out their solutions.

Fork the following Replit to work on in small groups: [Kth Smallest Element in BST](https://replit.com/@adadev/BST-Kth-Smallest-Element-Activity)

<!--
Solution:
* [C19 Small Group Solution](#)
-->

Commit message:

Remove references to replit & update links to github repos

03-Binary-Search-Trees/05-Binary-Search-Trees-Activity.md, after:

# Livecode & Activity

## Height of a Binary Search Tree

We will go over how to implement a recursive height function for Binary Search Trees as a class.

### Class Livecode

Follow along in the following repo as we livecode the function in class: 
* [BST Height Livecode Start](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/bst-height-livecode)
  * Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see a version of the Livecode implementation


### Small Group Work: Kth Smallest Element

For your small group activity,  you will work on implementing 'Kth Smallest Element' which returns the Kth smallest element in a BST given the `root` of the tree and `k`.

- Spend twenty minutes with your breakout room implementing a solution. 
- One person in the group should fork the repo and share a link with the rest of the group.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by discussing how you would solve the function using pen and paper.
- If your entire group is still feeling lost, discuss what is making you feel stuck and ask an instructor to come to your room for help!
- After small group work, we will come back together as a class to work through a solution together, as time allows. Groups may ask questions, share where they got stuck, and/or share out their solutions.

Fork the following repo to work on in small groups: [Kth Smallest Element in BST](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/bst-kth-smallest)
* Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see one version of a working implementation
