05-dijkstras/04-dijkstras-activity-async.md, before:

# Additional Practice 

### !callout-info

## Unit 4 is Asynchronous

You may see reference to previously used language related to the classroom or working in small groups throughout the content in Learn, in recordings, or in the repositories that are linked in the lessons. Unit 4 is now entirely self-directed and asynchronous. This means that you will work through the materials, problem sets, and any additional practice exercises at your own pace and you should disregard any reference to the classroom or working in groups. 

While we will not be facilitating group work time, please feel free to organize amongst yourselves and work on Unit 4 or review your solutions to any problems together.

### !end-callout

## Cheapest Flight

In the following repo, implement a function `cheapest_flight` that calculates the cheapest strings of flights when provided with a number of cities, flights, source city, destination city, and max number of layovers. Review the test file for more information on function implementation. 

Follow along in the following repo as we livecode the function in class: 
* [Cheapest Flight Livecode Start](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/cheapest-flight)
  * Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see a version of the Livecode implementation

## Minimum Effort Path Pseudocode

 Pseudocode a solution to the Minimum Effort Path problem in the repo. Get as far as you can, asking for instructor assistance when needed. As always, if you are feeling stuck, we invite you to come to office hours, ask questions in Slack in `#study-hall`, or consult an AI tool to help you brainstorm an approach without providing a solution.

* [Minimum Effort Path Activity](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/minimum-effort-path)
  * Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see one version of a working implementation

Once you finish, try implementing your pseudocode and getting all of the tests to pass!

Commit message:

updates graphs part 2 with independent/group work callout and links to livecode recording

05-dijkstras/04-dijkstras-activity-async.md, after:

# Additional Practice 

### !callout-info

## Unit 4 is Asynchronous

You may see reference to previously used language related to the classroom or working in small groups throughout the content in Learn, in recordings, or in the repositories that are linked in the lessons. Unit 4 is now entirely self-directed and asynchronous. This means that you will work through the materials, problem sets, and any additional practice exercises at your own pace and you should disregard any reference to the classroom or working in groups. 

While we will not be facilitating group work time, please feel free to organize amongst yourselves and work on Unit 4 or review your solutions to any problems together.

### !end-callout

## Class Livecode Recording: Cheapest Flight

Follow along with the Class Discussions recording as we livecode the function in class: 
* [Cheapest Flight Livecode Start](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/cheapest-flight)
  * Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see a version of the Livecode implementation

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=92eb7cca-3a77-4e8f-a656-aff8015091d5&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

## Minimum Effort Path Pseudocode

 Pseudocode a solution to the Minimum Effort Path problem in the repo. Get as far as you can. As always, if you are feeling stuck, we invite you to come to office hours, ask questions in Slack in `#study-hall`, or consult an AI tool to help you brainstorm an approach without providing a solution.

* [Minimum Effort Path Activity](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/minimum-effort-path)
  * Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see one version of a working implementation

Once you finish, try implementing your pseudocode and getting all of the tests to pass!

### Independent or Small Group Work

Feel free to complete this activity independently or in small groups. If you are working in a small group, have one person fork and clone the repository so that you can all work together on the implementation of the helper functions. Invite the other members of your group to the repo so that you can all push changes to the same repo and see each other's work.

- Time box no more than twenty minutes per function implementing a solution to the two helper functions using pseudocode or Python. 
- If you feel stuck, start by thinking about how you would solve the helper functions using pen and paper.
- Feel free to post to #study-hall! Explain what is making you feel stuck and try to work through your questions with others!
