01-algorithms/06-algorithms-supplemental-resources.md, before:

# Vocab and Resources

## Terms & Definitions

| Term | Definition |
|--- |--- |
| Greedy Algorithm | A greedy algorithm is an algorithmic strategy that follows the problem solving strategy of making the locally optimal choice at each stage with the intent of finding an optimal solution to a larger problem. |
| Dynamic Programming | A dynamic programming algorithm is an algorithmic strategy which solves and stores subproblems which repeatably occur within a larger problem with the goal of using these saved results to optimize a solution to the larger problem.  |
| Divide and Conquer | A divide and conquer algorithm tries to solve a large problem by repeatably dividing it into smaller subproblems until the problems become small enough to be solved directly and then combining the results to solve the larger problem. |
| Memoization | In computer science  memoization is an optimization technique used to speed up computer programs by storing the results of expensive function calls and saving the results to use when those method calls occur again.  |
| asymptotic analysis | A mathematical method of examining programs which describes how the program performs as the input size grows. |
| profile | In engineering, profiling is a form of analysis which measures the space and time complexities of a program.  This tends to be more a practical and statistical analysis as compared to asympototic analysis. |

## Resources

- [Geeks for Geeks: Greedy Algorithms and the Knapsack problem](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/greedy-algorithms/)
- [HackerEarth: Basics of Greedy Algorithms](https://www.hackerearth.com/practice/algorithms/greedy/basics-of-greedy-algorithms/tutorial/)
- [BaseCS: Less Repetition, More Dynamic Programming](https://medium.com/basecs/less-repetition-more-dynamic-programming-43d29830a630)

<!-- Diagram source https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UtfvVBsu6yAte1KftYjBhUwH8dCvjq33/view?usp=sharing -->

Commit message:

Add old video lessons as a resource

01-algorithms/06-algorithms-supplemental-resources.md, after:

# Vocab and Resources

## Terms & Definitions

| Term | Definition |
|--- |--- |
| Dynamic Programming | A dynamic programming algorithm is an algorithmic strategy which solves and stores subproblems which repeatably occur within a larger problem with the goal of using these saved results to optimize a solution to the larger problem.  |
| Divide and Conquer | A divide and conquer algorithm tries to solve a large problem by repeatably dividing it into smaller subproblems until the problems become small enough to be solved directly and then combining the results to solve the larger problem. |
| Memoization | In computer science  memoization is an optimization technique used to speed up computer programs by storing the results of expensive function calls and saving the results to use when those method calls occur again.  |
| asymptotic analysis | A mathematical method of examining programs which describes how the program performs as the input size grows. |
| profile | In engineering, profiling is a form of analysis which measures the space and time complexities of a program.  This tends to be more a practical and statistical analysis as compared to asympototic analysis. |

## Resources
### Past Video Lessons
The following video lessons are from past cohorts and cover some of the same materials covered in this lesson. Keep in mind some of the material has diverged. 
-  [Problem Solving Playlist](https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?pid=0471a830-aa32-4937-bb42-ae4c0144813e)
-  [Algorithms (Divide & Conquer, Greedy, & Dynamic Programming)](https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=2619c3c1-e6d5-48a1-a199-aad7014dcc4e)

### Past Slide Decks
- [C16 Algorithms Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1V4ycrfl3dbL0IbRHqK3ytU45VyMJQNHhyxpc3Ti2e28/edit?usp=sharing)

### External Resources
- [BaseCS: Less Repetition, More Dynamic Programming](https://medium.com/basecs/less-repetition-more-dynamic-programming-43d29830a630)

<!-- Diagram source https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UtfvVBsu6yAte1KftYjBhUwH8dCvjq33/view?usp=sharing -->
