01-algorithms/08-algorithms-activity.md, before:

# Activity

## Newman-Conway Sequence

We will go over the recursive solution with and without Dynamic Programming in class. 

Afterwards, you will work in groups to complete an iterative solution using Dynamic Programming.

### Class Livecode

Follow along in the following Replit as we livecode a recursive solution with and without Dynamic Programming: [Newman-Conway Recursively](https://replit.com/@adadev/Newman-Conway-Recursive)

* [C19 Newman-Conway Recursive Livecode Solution](https://replit.com/@adadev/C19-Newman-Conway-Recursive-Solution)

### Small Group Work

- Spend twenty minutes with your breakout room implementing an iterative solution using dynamic programming to the chosen problem using pseudocode or Python. 
- One person in the group should fork the replit and share a link with the rest of the group.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by brainstorming what kind of loop you may want to use in your solution. Consider the base cases, how you can add the base cases to the memo (for the memoization) and the end condition for your loop.
- If your entire group is still feeling lost, discuss what is making you feel stuck and ask an instructor to come to your room for help!
- After small group work, we will come back together as a class to work through a solution together. Groups may ask questions, share where they got stuck, and/or share out their solutions.

Fork the following Replit to work on in small groups: [Newman-Conway Iteratively with DP](https://replit.com/@adadev/Newman-Conway-Iterative)

Solution:
* [C19 Small Group Solution](https://replit.com/@adadev/Newman-Conway-Iterative-Solution)

Commit message:

Remove references to replit & update links to github repos

01-algorithms/08-algorithms-activity.md, after:

# Activity

## Newman-Conway Sequence

We will go over the recursive solution with and without Dynamic Programming in class. 

Afterwards, you will work in groups to complete an iterative solution using Dynamic Programming.

### Class Livecode

Follow along in the following repository as we livecode a recursive solution with and without Dynamic Programming: [Newman-Conway Recursively](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/newman-conway-recursive/)
* Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see a version of the Livecode implementation

### Small Group Work

- Spend twenty minutes with your breakout room implementing an iterative solution using dynamic programming to the chosen problem using pseudocode or Python. 
- One person in the group should fork the repo and share a link with the rest of the group.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by brainstorming what kind of loop you may want to use in your solution. Consider the base cases, how you can add the base cases to the memo (for the memoization) and the end condition for your loop.
- If your entire group is still feeling lost, discuss what is making you feel stuck and ask an instructor to come to your room for help!
- After small group work, we will come back together as a class to work through a solution together. Groups may ask questions, share where they got stuck, and/or share out their solutions.

Fork the following repo to work on in small groups: [Newman-Conway Iteratively with DP](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/newman-conway-iterative)
* Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see one version of a working implementation
