01-algorithms/08-algorithms-activity-async.md, before:

# Additional Practice

### !callout-info

## Unit 4 is Asynchronous

You may see reference to previously used language related to the classroom or working in small groups throughout the content in Learn, in recordings, or in the repositories that are linked in the lessons. Unit 4 is now entirely self-directed and asynchronous. This means that you will work through the materials, problem sets, and any additional practice exercises at your own pace and you should disregard any reference to the classroom or working in groups. 

While we will not be facilitating group work time, please feel free to organize amongst yourselves and work on Unit 4 or review your solutions to any problems together.

### !end-callout

## Newman-Conway Sequence

There are several approaches for implementing a solution to the Newan-Conway Sequence problem. We could write an iterative solution using dynamic programming or a recursive solution with or without dynamic programming as well. 

Fork and clone the [Newman Conway Sequence Iterative](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/newman-conway-iterative) repository. Implement an iterative solution using dynamic programming to generate a list of the first N numbers of Newman-Conway's Sequence. You can find more details in the repository. 

As always, if you are feeling stuck, we invite you to come to office hours, ask questions in Slack in #study-hall, or consult an AI tool to help you brainstorm an approach without providing a solution.

### Solution

After you have had a chance to work on your own solution(s) to the Newman-Conway Sequence, check out the `solution` branch in the following repositories to see our working implementations:

- [Newman-Conway Iteratively with DP solution branch](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/newman-conway-iterative/tree/solution)
- [Newman-Conway Recursively solution branch](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/newman-conway-recursive/tree/solution)

### Previous Recordings 

If you would like to review a livecode walkthrough of the recursive dynamic programming approach, please see the recording below. To see all the recordings related to Algorithmic Approaches, please consult the [Class Discussion](./09-algorithms-class-discussion.md) section of this topic.

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=a58d7b15-19a3-4f53-b719-afc80007a8cf&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>

Commit message:

Add instructions for optional small group work

01-algorithms/08-algorithms-activity-async.md, after:

# Additional Practice

### !callout-info

## Unit 4 is Asynchronous

You may see reference to previously used language related to the classroom or working in small groups throughout the content in Learn, in recordings, or in the repositories that are linked in the lessons. Unit 4 is now entirely self-directed and asynchronous. This means that you will work through the materials, problem sets, and any additional practice exercises at your own pace and you should disregard any reference to the classroom or working in groups. 

While we will not be facilitating group work time, please feel free to organize amongst yourselves and work on Unit 4 or review your solutions to any problems together.

### !end-callout

## Newman-Conway Sequence

There are several approaches for implementing a solution to the Newan-Conway Sequence problem. We could write an iterative solution using dynamic programming or a recursive solution with or without dynamic programming as well. 

Implement an iterative solution using dynamic programming to generate a list of the first N numbers of Newman-Conway's Sequence. Fork and clone the [Newman Conway Sequence Iterative](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/newman-conway-iterative) repo. 

You can find more details and tests to help you test whether your implementation works correctly

As always, if you are feeling stuck, we invite you to come to office hours, ask questions in Slack in #study-hall, or consult an AI tool to help you brainstorm an approach without providing a solution.

### Independent or Small Group Work

Feel free to complete this activity independently or in small groups. If you are working in a small group, have one person fork and clone the repository so that you can all work together on the implementation. Invite the other members of your group to the repo so that you can all push changes to the same repo and see each other's work.

- Time box no more than twenty minutes to implement an iterative solution using dynamic programming to the chosen problem using pseudocode or Python.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by brainstorming what kind of loop you may want to use in your solution. Consider the base cases, how you can add the base cases to the memo (for the memoization) and the end condition for your loop.
- Explain what is making you feel stuck and try to work through your questions with others!

### Solution

After you have had a chance to work on your own solution(s) to the Newman-Conway Sequence, check out the `solution` branch in the following repositories to see our working implementations:

- [Newman-Conway Iteratively with DP solution branch](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/newman-conway-iterative/tree/solution)
- [Newman-Conway Recursively solution branch](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/newman-conway-recursive/tree/solution)

### Previous Recordings 

If you would like to review a livecode walkthrough of the recursive dynamic programming approach, please see the recording below. To see all the recordings related to Algorithmic Approaches, please consult the [Class Discussion](./09-algorithms-class-discussion.md) section of this topic.

<iframe src="https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Embed.aspx?id=a58d7b15-19a3-4f53-b719-afc80007a8cf&autoplay=false&offerviewer=true&showtitle=true&showbrand=true&captions=true&interactivity=all" height="405" width="720" style="border: 1px solid #464646;" allowfullscreen allow="autoplay"></iframe>
