02-linked-lists/06-linked-list-activity.md, before:

# Activity

## Rotate a Linked List

We will go over the driving function in class.

Afterwards, you will work in groups to fill out the helper functions used in the driving function. Tests are added to the Replit to help you test if your helper functions work correctly.

### Class Livecode

Follow along in the following Replit as we livecode the driving function in class: 
* [Rotate Linked List Livecode Start](https://replit.com/@adadev/Rotate-Linked-List-Livecode-Start)
* [C19 Rotate Linked List Livecode Solution](https://replit.com/@adadev/C19-Rotate-Linked-List-Livecode-Solution)


### Small Group Work

- Spend twenty minutes with your breakout room implementing a solution to the two helper functions using pseudocode or Python. 
- One person in the group should fork the replit and share a link with the rest of the group.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by discussing how you would solve the helper functions using pen and paper.
- If your entire group is still feeling lost, discuss what is making you feel stuck and ask an instructor to come to your room for help!
- After small group work, we will come back together as a class to work through a solution together, as time allows. Groups may ask questions, share where they got stuck, and/or share out their solutions.

Fork the following Replit to work on in small groups: [Rotate Linked List w/ Helpers Blank](https://replit.com/@adadev/Rotate-Linked-List-Helpers-Blank)


Solution:
* [C19 Small Group Solution](https://replit.com/@adadev/Rotate-Linked-List-Instructor-Solution)

Commit message:

Remove references to replit & update links to github repos

02-linked-lists/06-linked-list-activity.md, after:

# Activity

## Rotate a Linked List

We will go over the driving function in class.

Afterwards, you will work in groups to fill out the helper functions used in the driving function. Tests are added to the repo to help you test if your helper functions work correctly.

### Class Livecode

Follow along in the following repo as we livecode the driving function in class: 
* [Rotate Linked List Livecode Start](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/rotate_linked_lists)
* Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see a completed implementation of both the livecode and activity


### Small Group Work

- Spend twenty minutes with your breakout room implementing a solution to the two helper functions using pseudocode or Python. 
- One person in the group should fork the repo and share a link with the rest of the group.
- If your entire group is feeling stuck, start by discussing how you would solve the helper functions using pen and paper.
- If your entire group is still feeling lost, discuss what is making you feel stuck and ask an instructor to come to your room for help!
- After small group work, we will come back together as a class to work through a solution together, as time allows. Groups may ask questions, share where they got stuck, and/or share out their solutions.

Fork the following repo to work on in small groups: [Rotate Linked List w/ Helpers](https://github.com/Ada-Activities/rotate_linked_lists)
* Check out the `solution` branch in the repo to see a completed implementation of both the livecode and activity
